add benchmark instructions (#255)
tikv/website: content/docs/5.1/deploy/benchmark/benchmark-instructions.md

---
title: Benchmark
description: How to make a benchmark over a TiKV cluster
menu:
    "5.1":
        parent: Deploy
        weight: 3
---

TiKV delivers predictable throughput and latency at all scales on commodity hardware. This page provides an step-by-step tutorial about industry-standard benchmarks [YCSB](https://github.com/brianfrankcooper/YCSB) on TiKV.

## Step 1. Setup the environment.

1. Prepare 1 node for the YCSB benchmark worker, 1 node for PD, 3 nodes for TiKV.

> Here is the recommended hardware configuration of the cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the recommended hardware configuration:
```

```

4. You can inspect the cluster information:
```sh
tiup cluster display [cluster-name]
```

## Step 3. Run a YCSB workload

YCSB has six kinds of workloads whose main difference are the portion of different operations. All six workloads have a data set which is similar. Workloads D and E insert records during the test run. Thus, to keep the database size consistent, we recommend the following sequence:
1. Load the database, using workload A's parameter file (workloads/workloada) and the "-load" switch to the client.
2. Run workload A (using workloads/workloada and "-t") for a variety of throughputs.
3. Run workload B (using workloads/workloadb and "-t") for a variety of throughputs.
4. Run workload C (using workloads/workloadc and "-t") for a variety of throughputs.
5. Run workload F (using workloads/workloadf and "-t") for a variety of throughputs.
6. Run workload D (using workloads/workloadd and "-t") for a variety of throughputs. This workload inserts records, increasing the size of the database.
7. Delete the data in the database.
8. Reload the database, using workload E's parameter file (workloads/workloade) and the "-load switch to the client.

> 9. Run workload E (using workloads/workloade and "-t") for a variety of throughputs. This workload inserts records, increasing the size of the database.

Reviewer: would you please give the shell command?

Reviewer: what's the differences between workload A-E?
how can users choose from workload A-E?

Author: Normally, users should run all the workload and check the workload they are interested in.

Reviewer: what's the differences between workload A-E?

{{< info >}}
If you trying to use more clients to benchmark, check [Running a Workload in Parallel](https://github.com/brianfrankcooper/YCSB/wiki/Running-a-Workload-in-Parallel).
{{< /info >}}

> For example, you can load a workload contains 10M records and 30M operations by:

Reviewer: how can users decide the parameters?
- recordcount
- operationcount

Author: It depends on how large data sets and how many operations the users want to test. It's all up to users, we can't determine what they want.

Reviewer: How do you choose the parameters when you do the benchmark?

While running `go-ycsb`, it will reports workload runtime information like the OPS, latency:

```
...
READ   - Takes(s): 9.7, Count: 110092, OPS: 11380.1, Avg(us): 3822, Min(us): 236, Max(us): 342821, 99th(us): 51000, 99.9th(us): 59000, 99.99th(us): 339000
UPDATE - Takes(s): 9.7, Count: 110353, OPS: 11408.8, Avg(us): 7760, Min(us): 944, Max(us): 344934, 99th(us): 59000, 99.9th(us): 65000, 99.99th(us): 339000
READ   - Takes(s): 19.7, Count: 229147, OPS: 11647.2, Avg(us): 3094, Min(us): 202, Max(us): 342821, 99th(us): 52000, 99.9th(us): 58000, 99.99th(us): 335000
```

It will report the summary of the workload whlie the workload is done.

```
Run finished, takes 4m25.292657267s
READ   - Takes(s): 265.0, Count: 4998359, OPS: 18864.7, Avg(us): 1340, Min(us): 181, Max(us): 342821, 99th(us): 11000, 99.9th(us): 51000, 99.99th(us): 73000
UPDATE - Takes(s): 265.0, Count: 5001641, OPS: 18877.1, Avg(us): 5416, Min(us): 599, Max(us): 1231403, 99th(us): 53000, 99.9th(us): 276000, 99.99th(us): 772000
```

{{< warning >}}
If it report errors like `batch commands send error:EOF`, it relates to this [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb/issues/145).
{{< /warning >}}

> ## Step 5. Clean up

Reviewer: How can users analysis the benchmark result？e.g. how to find the bottleneck？

Author: What does `bottleneck` means? Is the maximum throughput of `TiKV` or the components that are not fully used.

{{< /info >}}

2. Prepare services for the control node and component nodes.

For the control node, we require:

| package |    version     | comment             |
| :------ | :------------: | :------------------ |
| sshpass | 1.06 or above  | remote control      |
| TiUP    | 0.6.2 or above | depoly TiKV cluster |

For the component node:

| package |     version     |          comment           |
| :------ | :-------------: | :------------------------: |
| sshpass |  1.06 or above  |       remote control       |
| numa    | 2.0.12 or above | memory allocation strategy |
| tar     | no requirements |           unzip            |

For the YCSB node:

| package                                       |     version     |  comment  |
| :-------------------------------------------- | :-------------: | :-------: |
| [go-ycsb](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb) | no requirements | benchmark |

{{< info >}}
You can install [TiUP](https://github.com/pingcap/tiup) as described in [TiKV in 5 Minutes](../../tikv-in-5-minutes).
{{< /info >}}

## Step 2. Deploy a cluster

> 1. We could use the following topology to deploy our benchmark cluster via `tiup cluster`. **For more information, see [Production Deployment](../../install/production)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. We could use the following topology to deploy our benchmark cluster via `tiup cluster`. **For more information, see [Production Deployment](../../install/production)**.  Save the content below as `topology.yaml`:
```

```yaml
global:
  user: "tikv"
  ssh_port: 22
  deploy_dir: "/tikv-deploy"
  data_dir: "/tikv-data"
server_configs: {}
pd_servers:
  - host: 10.0.1.1
tikv_servers:
  - host: 10.0.1.2
  - host: 10.0.1.3
  - host: 10.0.1.4
monitoring_servers:
  - host: 10.0.1.5
grafana_servers:
  - host: 10.0.1.6
```

> 2. Save the content above as `topology.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Deploy the cluster:
```

```sh
tiup cluster deploy [cluster-name] [cluster-version] topology.yaml
```

3. Start the cluster:
```sh
tiup cluster start [cluster-name]
```

4. You can inspect the cluster information:
```sh
tiup cluster display [cluster-name]
```

## Step 3. Run a YCSB workload

YCSB has six kinds of workloads whose main difference are the portion of different operations:

1. Workload A: Update heavy workload
2. Workload B: Read mostly workload
3. Workload C: Read only

> 4. Workload D: Read latest workload

Reviewer: What does `Read latest` means? I'm a little confused.

> 5. Workload E: Short ranges

Reviewer: What dows `Short ranges` means?

Author: Added explanation to these workload

> 6. Workload F: Read-modify-write 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Workload F: Read-Update
```

Author: The official description of workload F is `Read-modify-write`

While running `go-ycsb`, it will reports workload runtime information like the OPS, latency:

```
...
READ   - Takes(s): 9.7, Count: 110092, OPS: 11380.1, Avg(us): 3822, Min(us): 236, Max(us): 342821, 99th(us): 51000, 99.9th(us): 59000, 99.99th(us): 339000
UPDATE - Takes(s): 9.7, Count: 110353, OPS: 11408.8, Avg(us): 7760, Min(us): 944, Max(us): 344934, 99th(us): 59000, 99.9th(us): 65000, 99.99th(us): 339000
READ   - Takes(s): 19.7, Count: 229147, OPS: 11647.2, Avg(us): 3094, Min(us): 202, Max(us): 342821, 99th(us): 52000, 99.9th(us): 58000, 99.99th(us): 335000
```

It will report the summary of the workload whlie the workload is done.

```
Run finished, takes 4m25.292657267s
READ   - Takes(s): 265.0, Count: 4998359, OPS: 18864.7, Avg(us): 1340, Min(us): 181, Max(us): 342821, 99th(us): 11000, 99.9th(us): 51000, 99.99th(us): 73000
UPDATE - Takes(s): 265.0, Count: 5001641, OPS: 18877.1, Avg(us): 5416, Min(us): 599, Max(us): 1231403, 99th(us): 53000, 99.9th(us): 276000, 99.99th(us): 772000
```

{{< warning >}}
If it report errors like `batch commands send error:EOF`, it relates to this [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb/issues/145).
{{< /warning >}}

> ## Step 5. Find the bottleneck.
> 
> There are two way the find the bottleneck of the TiKV cluster. 
> 
> 1. Increasing the threadcount of the client.
>       * You can increase the `threadcount` to the number of virtual cores of the machine. In some circumstances, it could reach the bottleneck of the TiKV cluster.
> 2. Increasing the count of benchmark clients.
>       * You can deploy more benchmark clients to increase the requests towards the TiKV cluster. Mutiple `go-ycsb` from different nodes could be launched simultaneously. And then you can summarise the result of these nodes.
> 
> Repeat the 2 steps above, the bottleneck of the TiKV cluster is reached while the QPS you inspect from the TiKV cluster's Grafana page is no longer increasing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 5. Find the maximal throughput.

There are two way the find the maximal throughput of the TiKV cluster. 

1. Increasing the threadcount of the client.
      * You can increase the `threadcount` to the number of virtual cores of the machine. In some circumstances, it could reach the bottleneck of the TiKV cluster.
2. Increasing the count of benchmark clients.
      * You can deploy more benchmark clients to increase the requests towards the TiKV cluster. Mutiple `go-ycsb` from different nodes could be launched simultaneously. And then you can summarise the result of these nodes.

Repeat the 2 steps above, the bottleneck of the TiKV cluster is reached while the QPS you inspect from the TiKV cluster's Grafana page is no longer increasing. 
```

Author: Done.

6. Workload F: Read-modify-write 
    > In this workload, the client will read a record, modify it, and write back the changes.

All six workloads have a data set which is **similar**. Workloads D and E insert records during the test run. Thus, to keep the database size consistent, we recommend the following sequence:

1. Load the database, using workload A's parameter file (workloads/workloada) .

    ```sh
    go-ycsb load -P workloads/workloada -p ... 
    ```

2. Run workload A (using workloads/workloada) for a variety of throughputs.

    ```sh
    go-ycsb run -P workloads/workloada -p ... 
    ```

3. Run workload B (using workloads/workloadb) for a variety of throughputs.
4. Run workload C (using workloads/workloadc) for a variety of throughputs.
5. Run workload F (using workloads/workloadf) for a variety of throughputs.
6. Run workload D (using workloads/workloadd) for a variety of throughputs. This workload inserts records, increasing the size of the database.
7. Delete the data in the database.

>    > You need to destroy the cluster via `tiup cluster destroy [cluster-name]`, and delete the data directory of cluster. Otherwise, the remaining data of the cluster may impact the results of the following workload.

Reviewer 2: May better to wrap the command in a code block as L187.

Author: It will be strange in blockquotes

> 8. Reload the database, using workload E's parameter file (workloads/workloade).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Restart the database.
```

Author: It needs to reload the workloade data, not just restart the cluster.

> 8. Reload the database, using workload E's parameter file (workloads/workloade).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Restart the database.
```

```

It will report the summary of the workload whlie the workload is done.

```
Run finished, takes 4m25.292657267s
READ   - Takes(s): 265.0, Count: 4998359, OPS: 18864.7, Avg(us): 1340, Min(us): 181, Max(us): 342821, 99th(us): 11000, 99.9th(us): 51000, 99.99th(us): 73000
UPDATE - Takes(s): 265.0, Count: 5001641, OPS: 18877.1, Avg(us): 5416, Min(us): 599, Max(us): 1231403, 99th(us): 53000, 99.9th(us): 276000, 99.99th(us): 772000
```

{{< warning >}}
If it report errors like `batch commands send error:EOF`, it relates to this [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb/issues/145).
{{< /warning >}}

## Step 5. Find the maximum throughput.

There are two way the find the maximal throughput of the TiKV cluster. 

1. Increasing the threadcount of the client.
      * You can increase the `threadcount` to the number of virtual cores of the machine. In some circumstances, it could reach the bottleneck of the TiKV cluster.
2. Increasing the count of benchmark clients.
      * You can deploy more benchmark clients to increase the requests towards the TiKV cluster. Mutiple `go-ycsb` from different nodes could be launched simultaneously. And then you can summarise the result of these nodes.

> Repeat the 2 steps above, the bottleneck of the TiKV cluster is reached while the QPS you inspect from the TiKV cluster's Grafana page is no longer increasing. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Repeat the 2 steps above, the bottleneck of the TiKV cluster will be reached when the QPS showed in TiKV's Grafana page is no longer increasing. 
```

Author: Accepting the `showed in`
